---
keywords: fastai
title: The Basics For Python!
categories: [week1]
nb_path: _notebooks/2022-08-30-Python_vocab.ipynb
layout: notebook
---

<!--
#################################################
### THIS FILE WAS AUTOGENERATED! DO NOT EDIT! ###
#################################################
# file to edit: _notebooks/2022-08-30-Python_vocab.ipynb
-->

<div class="container" id="notebook-container">
        
<div class="cell border-box-sizing text_cell rendered"><div class="inner_cell">
<div class="text_cell_render border-box-sizing rendered_html">
<h1 id="Basic-vocabulary-of-Version-Control">Basic vocabulary of Version Control<a class="anchor-link" href="#Basic-vocabulary-of-Version-Control"> </a></h1>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="cell border-box-sizing text_cell rendered"><div class="inner_cell">
<div class="text_cell_render border-box-sizing rendered_html">
<p>Few basic terms that are used often when discussing about version control (not exhaustive).</p>
<ul>
<li><p>Repository = a location where all the files for a particular project are stored, usually abbreviated to “repo.” Each project will have its own repo, which is usually located on a server and can be accessed by a unique URL (a link to GitHub page for example).</p>
</li>
<li><p>Commit = To commit is to write or merge the changes made in the working copy back to the repository. Whe you commit, you are basically taking a “snapshot” of your repository at that point in time, giving you a checkpoint to which you can reevaluate or restore your project to any previous state. The terms ‘commit’ or ‘checkin’ can also be used as nouns to describe the new revision that is created as a result of committing.</p>
</li>
<li><p>Revision / version = A revision or a version is any change in made in any form to a document(s).
Clone = Cloning means creating a repository containing the revisions from another repository. This is equivalent to pushing or pulling into an empty (newly initialized) repository. As a noun, two repositories can be said to be clones if they are kept synchronized, and contain the same revisions.</p>
</li>
<li><p>Pull / push = Copy revisions from one repository into another. Pull is initiated by the receiving repository, while push is initiated by the source. Fetch is sometimes used as a synonym for pull, or to mean a pull followed by an update.</p>
</li>
<li><p>Merge = A merge or integration is an operation in which two sets of changes are applied to a file or set of files.</p>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="cell border-box-sizing text_cell rendered"><div class="inner_cell">
<div class="text_cell_render border-box-sizing rendered_html">
<h1 id="Python-Data-Types">Python Data Types<a class="anchor-link" href="#Python-Data-Types"> </a></h1>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="cell border-box-sizing text_cell rendered"><div class="inner_cell">
<div class="text_cell_render border-box-sizing rendered_html">
<p>Variable is a way of storing values into the memory of the computer by using specific names that you define.</p>
<ul>
<li><p>Data types</p>
<ul>
<li>Integer (int) = Whole number</li>
<li>Float (float) = Decimal number</li>
<li>String (str) = Text</li>
<li>Boolean (bool) = True / False</li>
<li>List (list) = A “container” that can store any kind of values. You can create a list with square brackets e.g. [1, 2, 3, 'a', 'b', 'c'].</li>
<li>Tuple (tuple) = A similar “container” as list with a difference that you cannot update the values in a tuple. You can create a tuple with parentheses (1, 2, 3, 'a', 'b', 'c').</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
 

