---
keywords: fastai
title: GitHub and Git Sociology
nb_path: _notebooks/2022-10-10-sociology.ipynb
layout: notebook
---

<!--
#################################################
### THIS FILE WAS AUTOGENERATED! DO NOT EDIT! ###
#################################################
# file to edit: _notebooks/2022-10-10-sociology.ipynb
-->

<div class="container" id="notebook-container">
        
<div class="cell border-box-sizing text_cell rendered"><div class="inner_cell">
<div class="text_cell_render border-box-sizing rendered_html">
<h1 id="Quotes">Quotes<a class="anchor-link" href="#Quotes"> </a></h1><ul>
<li>“Talk is cheap. Show me the code.”</li>
<li>“Most good programmers do programming not because they expect to get paid or get adulation by the public, but because it is fun to program.”</li>
<li>"Microsoft isn’t evil; they just make really crappy operating systems."</li>
</ul>

</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="cell border-box-sizing text_cell rendered"><div class="inner_cell">
<div class="text_cell_render border-box-sizing rendered_html">
<h1 id="Terms-and-Usage">Terms and Usage<a class="anchor-link" href="#Terms-and-Usage"> </a></h1><ul>
<li>A “git clone” makes a local Git repository (decentralized) from the cloud server (GitHub/Git).</li>
<li>A .git directory contains a local database (see illustration) that keeps track of local changes.</li>
<li>A “git commit” makes a child snapshot of the original parent on the local database. Git commits over time are a series of Secure Hashing Algorithms (SHA’s). This is the math behind a git snapshot.</li>
<li>The .gitignore file tells .git to ignore certain files in directory tree (ie files constructed from source or derived files, like ipynb files that turn into md files).</li>
<li>The “git push” command moves files from local system back to cloud server (GitHub). However, often a merge is required as the decentralized system can have many simultaneous contributors. Students will experience this when they share a repository.</li>
<li>To minimize conflicts, Developers use Git branches and/or GitHub Forks to push code to an isolated locations on the server/cloud. This simply delays the inevitable merge, but has benefit of keeping developers branch of project stable.</li>
<li>Pull requests is common process used to merge code from isolated Fork back to the primary GitHub repository.</li>
<li>A “git rebase” is a common command for Developer on an isolated Git branch to update their environment from the “main” branch. Often this is done prior to a “git push” back the “main” branch.</li>
</ul>

</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="cell border-box-sizing text_cell rendered"><div class="inner_cell">
<div class="text_cell_render border-box-sizing rendered_html">
<h1 id="Questions-to-ask-within-the-team">Questions to ask within the team<a class="anchor-link" href="#Questions-to-ask-within-the-team"> </a></h1><ul>
<li>What is the main repository for your project?</li>
<li>Did you create a .gitignore to avoid committing files that ‘don’t belong in version control? Look at this tool for guidance.</li>
<li>Do you have a requirements.txt file to manage dependencies introduced to your Code Base?</li>
<li>Have you established Issues as part of your Development process? Creating Issues</li>
<li>Have you considered making Pull Requests to track development? Create - Pull Request</li>
<li>Have you considered forks or branching techniques with pull requests? - Link Issue to PR</li>
<li>Are you managing Issues on a Project Board/Scrum Board like Kanban? Tracking Issues</li>
</ul>

</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
 

